Release 2.5 (#7585)
antrea-io/antrea: CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-2.5.md

# Changelog 2.5

## 2.5.0 - 2025-12-03

### Added

> - Introduce a new feature gate `NFTablesHostNetworkMode` with a config `hostNetworkMode` to support `nftables` for proxyAll rules installed in the Node's host network by AntreaProxy. ([#7545](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7545), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduce a new feature `NFTablesHostNetworkMode` and an option `hostNetworkMode` to support `nftables` for proxyAll rules installed in the Node's host network by AntreaProxy. ([#7545](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7545), [@hongliangl])
```

- Add support for Antrea Egress in hybrid mode. ([#7239](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7239), [@hongliangl])

> - Add direction flag to antctl packetcapture command. ([#7195](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7195), [@sratslla])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add `direction` flag to `antctl packetcapture` command. ([#7195](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7195), [@sratslla])
```

- Add `conntrack_poll_cycle_duration_seconds` metric to track the time taken to poll conntrack and update the connection store. ([#7460](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7460), [@antoninbas])
- Add a `network-policy-delay` flag to `antctl check installation` to configure the policy realization delay. ([#7427](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7427), [@antoninbas])
- Add resource requests for Windows container in Antrea deployment. ([#7254](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7254), [@XinShuYang])

### Changed

- Upgrade Go to 1.25. ([#7561](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7561), [@antoninbas])
- Deprecate `L7FlowExporter` feature. ([#7567](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7567), [@luolanzone])
- Increase the minimum supported Kubernetes version to 1.23. ([#7564](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7564), [@antoninbas])
- Update `FlowExporterDestination` to allow specifying the namespace and name for TLS certificate resources, supporting cross-namespace configurations. ([#7549](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7549), [@andrew-su])

> - Accelerate Pod-to-Pod networking in `noEncap` and `hybrid` modes by leveraging nftables `flowtable` support to offload traffic and reduce host network stack overhead. ([#7324](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7324), [@hongliangl])

Author: Moved

> - Evolve AntreaProxy with a new healthz server on port 10256, and with `PreferSameTrafficDistribution` support. ([#7371](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7371), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Evolve the AntreaProxy framework, introduce a healthz server as an alternative to kube-proxy's, and add feature `PreferSameTrafficDistribution` support. ([#7371](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7371), [@hongliangl])
```

- Promote feature gates `TopologyAwareHints` and `ServiceTrafficDistribution` to General Availability (GA). ([#7503](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7503), [@hongliangl])
- Improve FlowExporter performance by using netlink zone filtering when dumping conntrack flows, reducing CPU and memory usage. ([#7504](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7504), [@antoninbas])

> - Prevent WireGuard enablement when the traffic mode is not encapsulation. ([#7464](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7464), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: encapsulation -> Encap

- Add disclaimers to Azure-related documentation and code, as Antrea is no longer tested on Azure. ([#7381](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7381), [@edwardbadboy])

> - Migrate dependency update configuration from Dependabot to Renovate to unify dependency management. ([#7354](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7354), [@ghadeer-elsalhawy])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Migrate dependency update configuration from Dependabot to Renovate. ([#7354](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7354), [@ghadeer-elsalhawy])
```

- Remove `AntreaProxy` and `NodePortLocal` feature gates from Helm charts and standard manifests. ([#7505](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7505), [@hongliangl])
- Add validation to ensure `AntreaIPAM` is enabled with `SecondaryNetwork`. ([#7556](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7556), [@luolanzone])

> - Periodically sync ip rules to ensure consistency. ([#7295](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7295), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Periodically sync ip rules managed by Antrea to ensure consistency. ([#7295](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7295), [@hongliangl])
```

- Use a more robust way to extract the source Node IP from encapsulated IGMP messages for multicast when the traffic mode is Encap. ([#7282](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7282), [@hongliangl])

> - Add validation to clarify `networkPolicyOnly` mode is not supported with Antrea Multicast. ([#7362](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7362), [@wenyingd])

Reviewer 3: this seems backwards, I would suggest:

> Add validation to prevent Antrea Multicast from being enabled in `networkPolicyOnly` mode.

- Unify validation logic for IPPool and ExternalIPPool for more consistent checks and failures. ([#7319](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7319), [@wenqiq])

### Fixed

> - Fix overflow issue in network policy priority assigner. ([#7496](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7496), @Dyanngg)

Author: Updated.

- Add missing policy UIDs for denied connections for FlowExporter. ([#7388](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7388), [@antoninbas])
- Upgrade `libOpenflow` to support OpenFlow message overflow. ([#7470](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7470), [@wenyingd])
- Fix ServiceCIDR discovery in the Multi-cluster member controller for Kubernetes versions 1.33 and newer. ([#7291](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7291), [@luolanzone])

> - Fix agent crash issue which is caused by unexpected interface store initialization for FlexibleIPAM uplink internal port. ([#7389](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7389), [@gran-vmv])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix Agent crash issue which is caused by unexpected interface store initialization for FlexibleIPAM uplink internal port. ([#7389](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7389), [@gran-vmv])
```

- Avoid missing or invalid NetworkPolicy data in FlowExporter records by increasing flow ID reuse delay and filtering old connections. ([#7468](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7468), [@antoninbas])
- Refine Traceflow to correctly handle inter-Node Pod-to-Pod traffic across all traffic modes. ([#7481](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7481), [@hongliangl])
- Fix ACNP applied to NodePort failing to reject traffic when the traffic mode is `noEncap` or `hybrid`. ([#7265](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7265), [@hongliangl])
- Fix a type assertion panic in `GetFlowTableID` function, which affected the `/ovsflows` HTTP handler. ([#7515](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7515), [@antoninbas])

> - Handle missing Pod IP and Pod IP changes in NodePortLocal to prevent incorrect datapath rules and clear NPL annotations. ([#7512](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7512), [@antoninbas])

Reviewer 3: remove "and clear NPL annotations", I think it can create confusion taken out of context

- Exclude Egress VLAN sub-interfaces (`antrea-ext.VLAN`) from NodePort addresses for consistency. ([#7519](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7519), [@antoninbas])
- Improve `initK8sNodeLocalConfig` in Agent initialization by separating Node and PodCIDR polling for better logging, and increase the timeout to 60s. ([#7473](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7473), [@antoninbas])
- Fix panic in monitor controller caused by unexpected delete event type. ([#7568](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7568), [@luolanzone])
- Clean up stale secondary IPs in IPPool when Node restarts with invalid OVSDB. ([#7511](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7511), [@luolanzone])
- Improve stale IP recycling in AntreaIPAM controller. ([#7538](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7538) [#7571](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7571), [@luolanzone])

> - Handle Traceflow external destination IP correctly in NoEncap mode to fix timeout issue. ([#7266](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7266), [@gran-vmv])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Handle Traceflow external destination IP correctly in `noEncap` mode to fix timeout issue. ([#7266](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7266), [@gran-vmv])
```

# Changelog 2.5

## 2.5.0 - 2025-11-28

### Added

- Add support for Antrea Egress in hybrid mode. ([#7239](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7239), [@hongliangl])
- Add IPv6 support for PacketCapture feature, including ICMPv6 handling and new CLI filter options. ([#7385](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7385), [@harshgdev])

> - Support arbitrary source or destination, allowing users to capture all ingress or egress traffic for a Pod by specifying only one endpoint. ([#7215](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7215), [@harshgdev])

Reviewer: This is confusing here. I cannot tell that which feature is enhanced.

Reviewer 2: "Enhance PacketCapture to support matching arbitrary source or destination"?

Author: Updated.

# Changelog 2.5

## 2.5.0 - 2025-11-28

### Added

> - Support `nftables` in Node host network for AntreaProxy. ([#7545](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7545), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer 3: should make it clear that it only impacts the proxyAll part of AntreaProxy:

> Support `nftables` for proxyAll rules installed in the Node's host network by AntreaProxy

- Add support for Antrea Egress in hybrid mode. ([#7239](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7239), [@hongliangl])
- Add direction flag to antctl packetcapture command. ([#7195](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7195), [@sratslla])
- Add IPv6 support for PacketCapture feature, including ICMPv6 handling and new CLI filter options. ([#7385](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7385), [@harshgdev])
- Enhance PacketCapture to support matching arbitrary source or destination. ([#7215](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7215), [@harshgdev])
- Enhance PacketCapture to also capture packets at the destination Pod, in addition to the source. ([#7289](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7289), [@harshgdev])

> - Add a new `FlowExporterTarget` CRD to enable defining multiple flow exporter targets with different rules and protocols. ([#7494](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7494), [@andrew-su])

Reviewer 3: don't include this one: we have merged the CRD definition but the implementation will not be added until Antrea v2.6, so the CRD is not usable for now

- Add autoscaling and multi-replica for FlowAggregator with proxy mode. ([#7256](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7256), [@andrew-su])
- Add confederation identifier to the `antctl get bgppolicy` command response. ([#7275](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7275), [@Atish-iaf])
- Add member ASNs to the `antctl get bgppolicy` command response. ([#7425](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7425), [@Atish-iaf])
- Add `conntrack_poll_cycle_duration_seconds` metric to track the time taken to poll conntrack and update the connection store. ([#7460](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7460), [@antoninbas])
- Add a `network-policy-delay` flag to `antctl check installation` to configure the policy realization delay. ([#7427](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7427), [@antoninbas])
- Add resource requests for Windows container in Antrea deployment. ([#7254](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7254), [@XinShuYang])

> - Accelerate Pod-to-Pod networking in `noEncap` and `hybrid` modes by leveraging nftables `flowtable` to reduce host network stack overhead. ([#7324](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7324), [@hongliangl])

Author: Updated.

### Changed

- Upgrade Go to 1.25. ([#7561](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7561), [@antoninbas])
- Deprecate `L7FlowExporter` feature. ([#7567](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7567), [@luolanzone])
- Increase the minimum supported Kubernetes version to 1.23. ([#7564](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7564), [@antoninbas])
- Add `uniqueMACForSubInterfaces` option to Egress, enabling unique MAC addresses for Egress VLAN interfaces by default. ([#7599](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7599), [@luolanzone])
- Evolve AntreaProxy with a new healthz server on port 10256, and with `PreferSameTrafficDistribution` support. ([#7371](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7371), [@hongliangl])
- Update `FlowExporterDestination` to allow specifying the namespace and name for TLS certificate resources, supporting cross-namespace configurations. ([#7549](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7549), [@andrew-su])

> - Promote feature gates `TopologyAwareHints` and `ServiceTrafficDistribution` to General Availability (GA). ([#7503](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7503), [@hongliangl])

Reviewer 3: nit: just say GA?

- Add disclaimers to Azure-related documentation and code, as Antrea is no longer tested on Azure. ([#7381](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7381), [@edwardbadboy])
- Migrate dependency update configuration from Dependabot to Renovate to unify dependency management. ([#7354](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7354), [@ghadeer-elsalhawy])
- Remove `AntreaProxy` and `NodePortLocal` feature gates from Helm charts and standard manifests. ([#7505](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7505), [@hongliangl])
- Add validation to ensure `AntreaIPAM` is enabled with `SecondaryNetwork`. ([#7556](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7556), [@luolanzone])
- Periodically sync ip rules to ensure consistency. ([#7295](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7295), [@hongliangl])
- Use a more robust way to extract the source Node IP from encapsulated IGMP messages for multicast when the traffic mode is Encap. ([#7282](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7282), [@hongliangl])
- Add validation to clarify `networkPolicyOnly` mode is not supported with Antrea Multicast. ([#7362](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7362), [@wenyingd])

### Fixed

> - Upgrade CNI plugins to v1.8.0 to fix CVEs. ([#7397](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7397), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 3: should be omitted or lower priority, as I doubt the CVEs could be exploited in the context of Antrea

- Exclude Egress VLAN sub-interfaces (`antrea-ext.VLAN`) from NodePort addresses for consistency. ([#7519](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7519), [@antoninbas])
- Improve `initK8sNodeLocalConfig` in Agent initialization by separating Node and PodCIDR polling for better logging, and increase the timeout to 60s. ([#7473](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7473), [@antoninbas])
- Fix panic in monitor controller caused by unexpected delete event type. ([#7568](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7568), [@luolanzone])
- Clean up stale secondary IPs in IPPool when Node restarts with invalid OVSDB. ([#7511](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7511), [@luolanzone])
- Improve stale IP recycling in AntreaIPAM controller. ([#7538](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7538) [#7571](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7571), [@luolanzone])
- Handle Traceflow external destination IP correctly in NoEncap mode to fix timeout issue. ([#7266](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7266), [@gran-vmv])

> - Unify validation logic for IPPool and ExternalIPPool for more consistent checks and failures. ([#7319](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7319), [@wenqiq])

Reviewer 3: Not a bug fix

- Add validation to ensure IP range start is not greater than end in IPPool. ([#7308](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7308), [@wenqiq])
- Improve SR-IOV device assignment to ensure it's idempotent. ([#7322](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7322), [@luolanzone])
- Improve secondary interface reconciliation and fix a nil pointer exception when both SR-IOV and VLAN interfaces are enabled in Antrea SecondaryNetwork. ([#7286](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7286), [@jianjuns])
- Add missing Run calls for nodeStore / serviceStore to start the garbage collection routines and fix a memory leak for FlowAggregator. ([#7343](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7343), [@antoninbas])
- Remove trailing whitespace from default manifests to fix antrea-config ConfigMap formatting issues. ([#7311](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7311), [@antoninbas])

[@Atish-iaf]: https://github.com/Atish-iaf

> [@Dyanngg]: https://github.com/Dyanngg

Reviewer 3: you forgot to add Yang's PR: https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/7496
probably belongs towards the top of the `Fixed` section
